# Unity

## 1. Setting Up the Unity Project
### Instal Unity

 Now let's take a look at how to get started with installing Unity. The first thing you need to do is go to unity.com and if you want, you can click on Get Started today and then click on download 2022 LTS. Or the faster way is to go to find Unity Hub. 'cause the way to install Unity, you need to have the hub installed first and then install the editor. So this is typically the way I do it. So I go and find the Hub first. And what you need to do depending on which operating system you have you can download for Windows here or you can scroll down and find the operating system 

### Project setup overview

 So now that we have Unity installed, we can go ahead and get started with a new project. So let's go ahead and explore how that works. So like I mentioned earlier, we have this section here that's called projects. So if you click on projects here, you'll see that we have no projects. So how do you create a new project? You click on this button right here. So let's go ahead and do that. Once you get here, you have several options. You can go through these specific templates here, so you can go to the learning section and get templates from there, but what we're going to do is go to all templates and go through the options here. 

### File management and project organization

 Now that we have our project set up let's take a look at the file structure and what is included inside of a Unity project. The other thing that I want to mention before we get to the file is if you go back to Unity here on the Unity Hub, and you create a new project if you want to have more items and three D meshes and you want to see a little bit more of what the H D R P scene can include there is a template in here that you can use which is the three D sample scene, H D R P. This scene includes a lot more stuff, like it has players, it has meshes, it has full scene with lights. If you want to see that you can download the template and create a project with it instead of the one that we just did, it's up to you. 

## 2. Understanding User Interface
### Introduction to the Unity user interface

 Now let's take a look at the Unity interface and its different sections. As you can see, I took the liberty of creating the sample project that I was talking about in a previous video 'cause I want you to see a lot more stuff inside of the scene. So really in Unity, there's really four sections that you need to pay attention to. There's the hierarchy, the project, which includes the console, the inspector and then your scene here, which you can also see when it's rendered in the game here. So if you press play, the scene's going to get started automatically here. And if you click game, 

### Key navigation shortcuts in Unity

 Knowing how to navigate in your scene is such an important skill to master sooner than later. So let's take a look at the shortcuts for moving in the scene. Like we explored before, the one that you already know is right click and the six keys that are together on the left of your keyboard. So w, s, q, e, a, and d. So this is what I use most of the time. Click the middle mouse button and then drag. So this allows you to drag inside the scene here like so. So with these shortcuts, you should be able to move inside of your scene as you work on the project.

### Key navigation shortcuts in Unity

 Knowing how to navigate in your scene is such an important skill to master sooner than later. So let's take a look at the shortcuts for moving in the scene. Like we explored before, the one that you already know is right click and the six keys that are together on the left of your keyboard. So w, s, q, e, a, and d. So this is what I use most of the time. Click the middle mouse button and then drag. So this allows you to drag inside the scene here like so. So with these shortcuts, you should be able to move inside of your scene as you work on the project.

### Unity documentation

 As we go through this course, we are going to cover a lot and I don't expect you to remember every function and action you need to build your amazing project. If you ever get stuck or need a refresher this is where Unity's vast resources come into play. What you do, you click on help and then you can click on Unity Manual and this is where you can find most of the information. So what you could do is either explore on the left here. So let's say for example you want to know more about 2D game development you can click on this section and then introduction and go through all the information here. If you want to know something specific and you don't want to scroll through the manual here what you could do is do a search. So let's say for example, you want to know more about URP You can actually do a search and then go into the list. Same thing with lighting and then go through the information here. So it's very important to get familiar with the manual because there's a lot that we're going to cover 

### Unity roadmap

 If you'd like to understand what is coming down the road with Unity, the roadmap section of Unity is a place you should take a look at. And the best way to find the roadmap is to do a search on Google. So, what I typically do is do Unity Roadmap. And then I click here. If you want to know the exact link, it's unity.com/roadmap. And then, what you could do is scroll down and take a look at the specifics. So if you're looking into 3D characters and animation, you can take a look at the roadmap specifically for that. And then, you can see what are the functions that they're working on right here. So, for example, GameObjects, DOT, New State Machine, you can click on it. And it's going to show you what they're working on. Because there's a lot of moving pieces inside of Unity, so there's 2D, 3D rendering engines, game objects, a lot of things in motion. You can take a look at all the developments that is the future of these specific items inside of Unity.

## 3. Working With Assets
### GameObjects and asset creation

 Game objects are the basis of everything you see in a scene. Every item in your scene, whether it's a light, a prop, or a character, is a game object. If we look at our scene here, everything is a game object. So the sky and fog volume, the sun, the main camera, everything is a game object. So if you look at it on the right side this is a game object with specific things added to it, which makes it a sky and fog volume. So if we right click inside of our hierarchy, we have create empty. So let's go ahead and do that. Let's create an empty game object. And as you can see, we have created a game object. So if we take a look at the right here it's called a game object. We have a position in the space of our scene, but it's not really anything yet. So the way it works inside of Unity and basically what you see in the inspector when you click on any other game objects here is all the elements that have been added to this game object to make it a light, to make it a mesh, and so on so forth. And the way you transform a base game object into something else, it's by adding a component. So if you click add component you have all these elements that you can add to the game object to make it something else. So let's say for example, we wanted to make it a light we could search for light and then add a light component 

### The asset store and package manager

 There are two sections you need to be aware of when looking for packages and assets. The Asset Store and the Package Manager. Let's explore both. You can find the package manager by clicking on Window, and Package Manager. The Package Manager installs native packages based on how you started the project. For instance, in our case you see all the packages that were installed here. If you had created another project, say a 2D game, different packages would've been installed. But you can also install any of the packages based on your needs. For instance, if you need TextMeshPro, you can also install this particular one here, or remove any of the packages inside of that project. Let's close Package Manager. And now let's open the Asset Store. So you can click on Window and then Asset Store. One note. the first time you open Asset Store, you're going to see this message, The Asset Store as moved. All you have to do is click on, Always open in browser from menu, and then search online, and then the next time you actually open Asset Store so let's close it. It's going to open a browser window, like this. The Asset Store is where Unity and other creators offer plugins, 3D objects, materials, and everything in between so you can actually enhance your game or 2D, 3D content created in Unity. You can access it from the menu from now on, and it's going to open the browser window. Feel free to explore both the Asset Store and the Package Manager to see what is available and what you can do.

### Guidelines for asset import

 When importing assets into Unity and depending on the assets, you need to be aware of a few elements, to be able to successfully import your assets and avoid issues down the road. In most cases, the assets will be created outside of Unity, and then imported into the program. And this is what we'll do later on. Let's explore what these elements are. First, you want to make sure you keep your 3D object or meshes with a low polygon count and as a clean model. Your 3D models need to have a clean topology. And what we mean by this is simply that when you look at the model, it's surface polygons are even and well distributed across the mesh. When 3D modelers or yourself create your models, you want to make sure you have them snap to the origin, or at zero zero. This will help bring them into unity. And then you'll have the models at the origin of your scene, where you can position them afterwards. You also need to have UVs map for your models, for the texture, and light map channels. But if you only have a texture channel, Unity will create the light map for you. When you use textures, you need to make sure the images are in equal width and height resolutions. For example, a 512 by 512, 1,024 by 1,024. And in most cases, programs that focus on creating the textures, like substance painter for example, will export a 2,048 by 2,048 image as a default. So no matter what size you export, make sure your textures are the same height and width. If you have animations attached to your models, you want to make sure they aren't too complex. Make sure you don't have too many key frames in your animation. Let's quickly take a look at the file formats Unity supports when we import our 3D assets into Unity. First, there is FBX, which is the format most commonly used to export out of most 3D programs. And this format supports the inclusion of textures, materials, animation, and the 3D meshes in the same file. And most other formats will bring only the model. So in most cases, if you have the FPX format export available, try to get your assets exported in this format. For texture formats, Unity supports the following image formats. And in most cases, you want to use .png, as it is a high quality format and supports an alpha channel. You can also import PSD and TIFF files into Unity, with their layers too. Many more file formats will be accessible in Unity as the software continues to grow. So if you're curious about a new supporter format check the documentation for more information. So keep these best practices top of mind, to make sure we keep our imports light, and to maintain great performance of our projects within Unity. These tips will help you down the road, when you start adding lights, special effects, and post-processing.

### Import assets into Unity

 So now that we have a good idea of what are the best practices for imports, as well as what we can import, let's go ahead and import the meshes into our project. There are three ways to import assets into Unity. The first one is clicking on assets here and then import new asset. The second one is if you want to grab a file directly from a folder, and in this case, this is what we're going to do. You click on that folder, you select your asset. In this case, what we're going to do is bring the French Country Kitchen and you drag and drop into your scene or your assets. The third way is the way we've seen before. If you want to open your project, so let's say we go into Unity Hub right here and we find the folder for our project, which is right here, you can drag and drop assets into the assets folder right here. So the best way for me and the way that I would recommend is to drag and drop into the projects and let Unity figure out what he wants to do with those files, just in case there's some things that needs to happen in the background in the new version or a later version of Unity. So what I'm going to do is basically grab the folder that I had open, which is here. Let me bring it up to make it easier for us to see what's happening, like so. And then you want to go into the assets here because in this case, we're bringing a 3D scene or 3D model, or you can create a folder here in your project and create a folder for meshes and then drag and drop this mesh into that folder. It's up to you. So I'm just going to simply drag the asset into my assets here. So I'm going to do that now, grab this asset here, and as you drag it into the window here, you're going to see a plus. Release, and now it's going to bring my 3D asset in here so we can bring back Unity here. As soon as it's done, it's going to appear in here as a mesh. So now we can drag and drop this into our scene. So as you saw before, it's not in our scene yet, but it's in our assets. If we delete it here in our assets, it's gone forever. But if we delete it in the hierarchy, it won't be gone forever. It's still going to be in the assets. So let's go ahead and drag it into our scene like so. And now you can see it here. And what I'm going to do is position it at 0, 0, 0 just to make sure it's straight in the middle of the scene. So I'm going to click in the inspector in the transform area in the position, and I'm going to do 0, 0, 0, like so. And now you can use the shortcuts that I told you about before, the Q, W, E, A, S, D with the right click to move inside of the scene. And let's go ahead and move into the scene. And you're going to see now what we imported. So right, now we have this scene here. That is the kitchen. And if you want to remove all these elements, which are basically lights, what you could do is click on this element here not to show all the little tags like so. And now you can see the scene and we can bring them back later on if you want but I tend to remove 'em just to be able to see my scene in its full nature. And this is it. So if you move out, you're going to see we have another room here. We have all the appliances, we have two ovens and so on and so forth. So we're going to have fun with this one. There you go. So this is how you import assets into Unity. Let's move on.

## 4. Applying Materials
### Introduction to materials

 Now let's talk about materials. But just a quick note, if you use the sample scene with the players and rooms, remove the meshes and imported the kitchen, your scene might look different than mine here, mostly because of the HDRP settings that came with the scene. So not to worry, we'll cover these settings when we talk about rendering further. So before we move on to discuss materials, in the resources, I created a folder or a package that will import that includes all the materials. This one here. So let me show you how to import the Unity package here and we've explored this a little bit in the previous video. So you go into assets and then import package or you could do import new asset, but in this case it's a package. So import package, a custom package. And by the way if ever you want to share your scene, your materials, or specific things from Unity to somebody else, you could do basically export package. And this is what I did to create the packages that we're going to use now. So if you click on export package, you can select basically anything that you want to export out of this particular scene. So let's say for example, you wanted to have the settings from the other scene, the HDRP settings from the other scene and you wanted to import it here because you've used this one as opposed to the sample scene, you could do that. So you could go into the other scene and just export the HDRP settings and then import it in this scene. So this is how it works when you want to export a package. So let's go ahead and import our package here, custom package. And then let's go on the desktop, exercise files, resources, and import the materials, Unity package. So what do you want to import from that package? In this case, all the materials, all the textures, everything that's part of that package. Import. So while we import, let's explore what materials are. When working with the look of your objects, you have three elements. You have shaders. Shaders are how light reacts to an object. So now that we have our package, let's me show you. If I go into materials and I select any of the materials here, let's say black glass, this is where the shader is. The shaders are how light reacts to an object. In Unity, you have several types of shaders and feel free to explore them in between videos. So if you look at the shaders here, you have all these different types of shaders: you have particles, you have VR, unlit, sprites, so on, so forth. In this case what we're going to do is select an HDRP one and these are all the HDRP shaders that you have. And in this case, we have a lit one. Then you have materials. Materials define how the surface of a model should be rendered and includes reference to the texture it uses. So the material is basically all these guys here. And then inside of our material, you have all these settings that basically tell how the light is actually applied to this and what are the texture files and so on, so forth. The third one are the texture files. The texture files are basically images that include the necessary information for a channel and are typically created by texturing software like Substance Painter. So if we look in the materials folder and in the textures, we have all the textures for our scene here. So for example, we have the book texture, we have the granite white, we have the steel glossy, and so on and so forth. So if you want to increase by the way the size of your objects here, you can do this. And these are all the texture files. So we have our base color texture map, we have our height texture map, metallic, normals, and the roughness texture map. And we're going to use this for creating material shortly. Okay, so now we'll explore in the following video how to create your own material. Let's move on.

### Creating and organizing new materials

 If you haven't been following along, you wouldn't have a materials folder. So if that's the case, go ahead and create a materials folder. This is very important to be organized in Unity because at one point you're going to have multiple scenes leveraging assets across all these folders here. So you want to get organized very quickly, especially if you're in gaming or in architecture with multiple scenes. So now that we have a materials folder, let's go ahead and create a new material. And you do this by right clicking in the materials folder. So I'm going to right click right here, select create, and then material. And I'm going to name this one "Test Material" 'cause I'm not going to create any more materials after. I'm going to leverage all the materials that I have in here. So "Test Material," and I have this guy here, and I have all these elements for my test material. So this is what it looks like right now. So if you want to look at it from every angle, you can actually click and move it. And this is basically based on all the settings that we have in here. So before we continue exploring the types of shaders available, because that's the very first thing you need to do is select a shader. Let's explore what they are. Shaders are really different calculations to render the final look of your material based on the material configurations and lighting inputs. If this is a mouthful, you'll understand as we work with our shader. The type of shader changes the calculation and final rendering of the look. In most cases, you'll use the standard shader as it is a shader that tries to render real world objects such as stone, wood, glass, plastic, and metal, the HDRP/Lit. And this is preselected based on the project that we're currently in. If you are in a 2D game, you would have different shaders available or preselected for you. So if you're using a material that isn't metallic, feel free to use the specular shader. And if that doesn't make any sense now, this is basically in here, if you look at specular, if you do a search for specular, you're going to see all the specular shader here. So you would use like the standard specular setup here as opposed to HDRP/Lit here. And if you want to see what's available here in HDRP, you can take a look here and go through all of these to find out which one offers specular shader. Okay, so now if you take a look at all the shaders like we explored a bit earlier, if you apply any of 'em, so let's say for example, we go into particles, you can do a standard surface. You're going to see things change directly in your preview here. So if you go into HDRP again and we select an eye, you're going to see your shader change to an eye and then you can apply the textures to make it look like an eye. So now you can see that there's an actual sclera here and you can make changes to that particular area, and then you can apply changes to that material. And then if you have a character with an eye mesh, you can then drag and drop that material into the eye. So you see that there's a lot of possibilities within the shaders. And feel free to explore or take a look at the documentation for best practices. So we're going to go back to HDRP. We're going to select in this case, the Autodesk Interactive and then Autodesk here because we're going to need that when we actually go and add our maps here that we have in our textures folder. So we'll start working on our material in the next video.

### Material and texture properties

 Let's add textures to our new material while we explore all the settings we can work with. As a quick note, if you're exploring with your own model and textures and you have any texture maps from a 3D program like Substance Painter, feel free to pause the lesson now and import them into the texture folder and add them to the proper maps here in the material you'll create. For everybody else, let's take a look at what we have. So if you're following along, you should have your material open here. And what I did, I clicked on the folder steel_glossy as an example, and I basically shrunk the list here to this size here so I can see all the different maps. So these are all the texture maps that were exported from a program like Substance Painter. So we'll add the first one here, the base color. So as we add the texture maps to our material, let's spend more time to understand what each does to an object. Let's start with the base color. Base color is the color of your material, the base color. So what we do is click here, grab base color and drag and drop right here. So that's your base color. The next one is the metallic setting. In 3D, when creating textures and the images associated with it, you'll either get a specular map or a metallic map, which are associated with how reflective or metallic your object is. The way to add the map is to basically grab the metallic map, add it here, and then crosscheck like so. And like we did in the past, you can actually explore how your 3D object would look if you were to apply this material. The next one is the roughness. Roughness is how smooth or rugged our new material is. The higher the level, the smoother the surface is. In the case of our new material, we have a grayscale map that determines this and we can add it too. So if we go into our files here, we have this one that's called roughness. So we look for roughness here on our material and we can grab the map here and apply through here. So if you don't want to apply a map, you can crosscheck here and apply it through a setting like so and it's going to make it more rough or less rough. So let's say, for example, you have a glass. A glass is usually less rough. If you have a terrain or if you have anything else, it's usually more rough, and in this case, it would reflect less light. But in this case, we'll apply the map like so. The next one is the normal map. The normal map is the one that adds details to the geometry of an object. So we have it right here, so we can drag and drop it into our normals here and apply it too. In the case of our new material here, we add no geometry because it's a smooth surface and therefore, we add this map that has this color here. If you want to know more about normals, you can research it on Google or take a look at the documentation in Unity. Now, if we scroll down, we have two more that we're not going to use on this specific object. So we would be ready to drag and drop this steel glossy look into our scene. But we have two more settings here. The first one is emissive. Emissions should be click and used only when your object is a source of lighting and then add the color of a map of the light being emitted. We could use this on the lamps, for instance. So you would click here and then add a color here like so but we're not using this one. And the last one is an occlusion map. The occlusion map adds even more realism by defining how the light should react to your object. Should it receive low or high indirect lighting? But we don't have one in this case. And last but not least, if you ever have issues where the map looks weird on your scene, you probably have tiling and offset issues. So you can work on these with these two here. So let's say, for example, your map is a map of a book. We're going to use one of those later on. The book doesn't look the way it was textured in your other program. Well, you probably have a scaling problem here, so you could change the scale to make sure the book is sized properly with the map, or you may have an offset that you need to offset the map a little bit to the left to the right, up or down with the x and y-axes. So now that we've explored materials in detail and before we move on to the next video, feel free to play around with them to achieve your desired look in your own projects.


## 5. Prefabs
### What are Prefabs?

 If you've read or watched anything related to Unity, you may have heard of this term prefabs. A prefab, in its simplest form, is a template from which you can create multiple instances of the same object, keeping all its properties. And when you need to make a change to an instance, you simply update the prefab, and all its children will be updated. Typically, prefabs are used for props or NPCs, which is short for non-player character. So for example, if you want to create a forest with dozens of similar trees, prefabs are perfect for this. You can create a player prefab if you'd like to, but since a game typically only has a single character instance, this might not be useful. You can also nest prefabs and create variations within these nested branches of your hierarchy. For example, if you wanted to create two different sets of trees with dozens of children each but one set with green leaves and the other one with blue leaves, you could do it. In other words, you can override nested branches of your prefabs and then create variations for those branches so your forest isn't main only of one type of tree but many variations. What you don't realize is that we already created one without knowing. When we imported the kitchen model into our project folder, we created a prefab, and you can tell it is a prefab by looking at the hierarchy, where the kitchen portion has a blue icon, therefore, is a prefab. We'll explore all these different aspects of prefabs in this chapter.

### Creating Prefabs

 Okay, so let's go ahead and create our first prefab. Well, in fact, we already did create our first prefab, because when we drop the model into our scene, this is a prefab, and you can see it through the blue areas here. So let's go ahead and create a prefabs folder, because I tend to want to drop all my prefabs into a specific folder so I can be organized. So let's go ahead and click on the assets in the project folder, right click, create folder, and then call this folder prefabs. So the way to create a prefab is very simple. You grab the object in the scene or in the hierarchy that you want to create a prefab from, and you drop it inside your assets, in this case, in our prefabs folder. So we're going to select our prefabs folder. We want to make sure you're inside of there, and then what I want to select is the book here, this book right here. So if you don't have this open, it's basically inside of our prefab here, inside of French country kitchen and then accessories, and you'll find the book. If you want to get closer to it, you can double click on the book or you can use the navigation shortcuts, the right click, Q, W, E, A, S, D, and so on, so forth. So now that I have this selected, I can drag and drop the book into my folder and create the prefab. FYI, this is an error that could occur if your main asset is a prefab, and this is good that we have this error, because right now, we have our asset that we dropped into our scene, this is a prefab, but this is also part of that prefab. So we need to unpack this one so we can create a prefab out of the book. So let me show you how you can do that, 'cause you're going to have this error, too, if you're following along. So let's go ahead and click on okay, and what we need to do is go at the parent level of the prefab that we created, right click, select prefab, and then unpack completely. So now everything is white as opposed to blue. The French country kitchen is no longer a prefab. Now we can create a prefab out of the book. So we select a book, drag and drop into our prefabs folder, and there you go, you have your prefab for the book. And now what we could do is add the materials to the book, so let's go ahead and do that. We're going to go into our materials here and grab one of the three materials book and drag and drop into our book like so, and you see our first material. So now that we have this, we could literally have another book directly created from our prefab. So we can grab this, add another book into our scene like so, and let's make sure that we can go to it, 'cause I don't want the book to be right in the middle of the scene like this, so what I'm going to do is grab the book and bring it on this little piece of furniture here. So I'm going to use the arrows like this, bring it closer to where I want it to be like so, and we can add a little bit of style to it if we want, so we can actually use one of the other keys. And remember, these are the shortcuts, Q, W, E , R, T, to have these actions that you can do on a specific object. So in this case, I want to move it a little bit like so, and then as you can see, we create a prefab, but there's no materials applied to this one, so we could actually go into our materials, grab book number two, and have this material specific to this book as opposed to the same that we have over there. So this is a very quick way to create multiple copies, like I explained with the trees example, of a specific mesh and then apply different materials, or if you want, you can actually create copies of this one and have the same materials applied to it. So feel free to play with the 3D objects, create more prefabs, add more items to the scene, and let's move on after that.


### Prefab Variants

 What is a prefab variant? It is very similar to an instance of a prefab, but now you'll have access to it to be added in your scene much like the original prefab. For example, let's say we were building a library that contains hundreds of books. It might be more manageable to build several different versions of a book as prefabs and use them throughout our scene. This is where prefab variants might be handy. So let me show you. So what we're going to do is grab the book here, the first one, and then we're going to do the exact same thing that we did in the last video and select prefab variant. Remember we had that option? Let's go ahead and do it, drag it here. And then we have prefab variant. So basically what it does it's going to create that prefab variant here and we can drag and drop that same prefab variant and it's going to be the variant of this book here. So if I go ahead and drag another copy, I'm creating a variant. And the same rules applies to the variant as with the instance where if I change anything on this book here, it will apply to this book and basically any copies of that book as well. So if you have 50 books that have this particular material, if you change the parent or the prefab variant, it's going to apply it to this particular material as well. If you change this material of the variant, then it's going to only apply to the variant. So let's go ahead and just position this guy. And there you go. So using prefab variants over instances could be useful in many scenarios. For example, for NPCs, where you have characters with different abilities, shapes, sounds, et cetera. But all originated from a main character. Let's move on.

### Prefab Variants

 What is a prefab variant? It is very similar to an instance of a prefab, but now you'll have access to it to be added in your scene much like the original prefab. For example, let's say we were building a library that contains hundreds of books. It might be more manageable to build several different versions of a book as prefabs and use them throughout our scene. This is where prefab variants might be handy. So let me show you. So what we're going to do is grab the book here, the first one, and then we're going to do the exact same thing that we did in the last video and select prefab variant. Remember we had that option? Let's go ahead and do it, drag it here. And then we have prefab variant. So basically what it does it's going to create that prefab variant here and we can drag and drop that same prefab variant and it's going to be the variant of this book here. So if I go ahead and drag another copy, I'm creating a variant. And the same rules applies to the variant as with the instance where if I change anything on this book here, it will apply to this book and basically any copies of that book as well. So if you have 50 books that have this particular material, if you change the parent or the prefab variant, it's going to apply it to this particular material as well. If you change this material of the variant, then it's going to only apply to the variant. So let's go ahead and just position this guy. And there you go. So using prefab variants over instances could be useful in many scenarios. For example, for NPCs, where you have characters with different abilities, shapes, sounds, et cetera. But all originated from a main character. Let's move on.

## 6. Level Building 
### Introduction to ProBuilder

 ProBuilder is an amazing tool to help you build simple geometry directly inside of Unity. It's great for building simple structures and level blocking before you get any detailed 3D meshes into your game. In most cases, people will use it to block a level and raise simple structures and then replace them with the models 3D artists provide them. In our case, we'll just play a little bit with ProBuilder. The way to get access to ProBuilder is to go first into the Window, Package Manager, and find it inside of Package Manager. And one thing we haven't explored in Package Manager yet is how to find more packages beyond the ones that are installed in your project. Because right now, if you look at the top here, it says Packages in Project. And these are the ones that are installed in our project. If you want to have more than this or install other packages that Unity offers from any other tools or any other templates, you click here and then you click on Unity Registry. So this is where you're going to have access to a whole lot of other packages. So the ones that we're looking for is ProBuilder. As you can see, it's already preselected because I've done this before. But if you want to find it, you can actually go into the search tool and do ProBuilder, like this, and you're going to find the package here. So we need to install ProBuilder first. Once ProBuilder is installed, you can access it from the tools here. So once you click on ProBuilder, you can open the pro builder window, like so. And this is what we're going to use to create new shapes inside of our scene. So if you want to create a new shape very quickly before we move on to the next video, you can click on New Shape, and then create a shape from this menu here. So we can create cubes, spheres, cones, a whole bunch of different objects inside of your scene. Again, most of the time this is used for blocking purposes because most of the 3D objects that you're going to get is from 3D artists. Feel free to explore Pro Builder a bit before moving on, and I always recommend to experiment. It's the best way to learn, and then move on to the next video.

### Exploration of ProBuilder tools

 So let's explore ProBuilder further. The first thing I'm going to do before I do anything with ProBuilder, I'm going to dock the menu. So I'm going to grab the menu here and put it beside the inspector right here so I have access to it while I'm working on my shape. The second thing I'd like to show you is the three dots here, show you the menu or the window options here. So if you click on the three dots you can select the window to be open as a dockable window or floating. You can also switch to icon mode, and this is when you're going to be more familiar with what ProBuilder does. You can switch to that, but for the time being what we're going to do is do the text. So use text mode here. So what I'm going to do is move into the other room where there's nothing, whoop a bit too far. So let's go back inside of our kitchen/living room and we're going to build something right here. And while we're doing this, I want to mention the grid system. So the grid system is part of Unity, it's not part of Pro Builder, and it's an option right here. So what it does when it's turned on, it has that grid system here, which is basically the X,Y and Z. And you can also turn it on for the wall here as opposed to the floor. So if you make the plane on the Z axe, it's going to be on the wall, the X axis, it's going to be on another plane but we're always going to be working with the Y axis on this video. And if you want to change the opacity of the grid you can select it here and as you move the handle, you're going to see that the squares are either fading out or more clear. So I'm going to keep it at the regular options. So this is going to help us while we build our first object inside of our scene here. So let's go ahead and build something. So I'm going to create a new shape. And when you are in this menu here, you have several shapes that you can actually use. And these shapes are a cube, a cylinder, you can have a cone, a sphere, et cetera, et cetera. So you can use all of these to block your scene here. So what we're going to do first is use a cube. And as I build my first cube, you're going to see the size here change with these options. If you don't have these options open, click on the arrow here, like so. And it's important to see this be because you can actually be more precise with the numbers here. So let's go ahead and build something. So I'm going to to first do this and then build my cube like so. And you have your first cube. So if you want to change any of the options here... So let's say for example you want to make it taller, you want to make it bigger or shaped in a very different way, you have all these options here. So this is the object, these are the vertices, these are the edges, and these are the faces. So if you want to select a face and make your object bigger you can do this and select a face. If you want to select vertices and if you lost access to your cube, it's right here as you can see. Let's move it into the scene here 'cause it's partially on the other side. So I basically use my move tools to do that. Now you want to select a vertex you can click on this tool here, select the vertex and then use all the usual move tools here. So you can use the move the R, so scaling, rotating or the move tool with the shortcuts, W, E and R. And then you can move that vertex like so. As you can see we're building an ugly piece of furniture here. If you select the face here you can actually move the face like so. And if you select the edge, you can actually select an edge here and move that specific edge like so. So as you can see you have all the typical tools of a 3D program. And as you select different things here, lower the vertex you're going to see the menu change here based on what you have selected. So the next thing I want to do is show you the new poly shape tool. So let's go back to the object. And what I'm going to do here is select this tool here. So this is basically not a predefined shape, but you create a shape based on vertices that you click on the scene. So let's go ahead and select new poly shape. And I'm going to click a vertex, a second one and then a third one. And again, I'm following the grid system that we have here just to help me out. And then the tool is in the way. Whoops, okay, so this, and then I'm going to close my shape here like so. And as you can see, I created the square. Now I can make it this tall. And then we can quick editing once we're done. And then we have all the same tools that we have here for the other shape that we created. So I can go ahead and select a vertex or multiple vertex and move those vertices up or down like so. And then I just create another shape. So feel free to take a look at the other options in-between the videos, but we'll explore ProBuilder further next.

### Block the floor with ProBuilder

 So let's go ahead and explore some of the other tools that we have access to with Pro Builder. So this is not a 3D course. So I'm not going to show you how to UV your 3D object or add specific materials to this object beyond the materials that we already have access to, or the process of creating 3D objects. But if you want to learn more about Pro Builder, go ahead and take a look at the documentation in our course specific to Pro Builder. Because this is basically as if we were doing 3D inside of Unity, and it's a lot more complex than just doing a few objects like we've done in the previous videos. So if you want to learn how to build a 3D object, complex objects with Pro Builder, then take a look at a specific course to this tool. But I'm going to show you still what are those tools very, very quickly. So for example, if you had a complex object, let's say there were million or vertices here, and you wanted to smooth your object, the first thing that I would do is use smoothing. And again, depending on what you have selected, the tools will change here. But smoothing is in most tools. So if I click on it, it's not going to do much, because we don't have a lot of vertices right now. But as you can see, it did some smoothing, but it's not the best, because again, these are like simple, simple, simple shapes. If you had the character that had millions of vertices, like one that you built in Zbrush, then you would have more possibilities with this tool. So let's close this. The second tool is again, the material editor. So if you go here, you can start building materials for this specific object here. It's the same process as if you were using any of the materials here. And the same things that we've been doing so far applies here. If you want to apply the ceramic look to this guy, you can actually use it here too. But because it's a very simple object, it won't work the same way as if we apply the materials to the complex objects here. And there are millions of vertices on these objects here. So if you want to do anything else, you can select the specific menu, and you'll see what you can do. So for example, with the vertices, you can actually mesh two vertices together. You can do a whole bunch of things like flip normals, which I wouldn't recommend for this specific object here. But if you select two vertices, in this case, these two here, one of the tools that is possible is to collapse them. So you can collapse these two vertices, and then your object would look very weird, because you just have one vertex as opposed to two now. If you select the edge tool here and then you select an edge, you see what you have. You could bevel an edge, and so on and so forth. There's a lot of things that you can do in 3D. And this is a very complete program to do a lot of things inside of Unity. But beyond that, I would recommend a 3D program. So what I would recommend, if you're really interested in building complex objects inside of Unity with Pro Builder, go ahead and take a course on 3D modeling with another package before you go through Pro Builder. Because Pro Builder will give you a lot of the same tools, but it won't provide you with complex tools that will allow you to build really solid 3D models that you will use inside of your scene. So it's always better to work off, for example, Maya, Cinema 4D, Zbrush, Blender, or any of these programs first, and then bring the object here, and then work with the object inside of Unity. But this is a very solid set of tools to block your scene first. So it's always good to start blocking your scene, work on your collisions, work on things for your games, or your scene that you're working here, and then you'll see what you'll need to build in more details. Or even you can grab assets from an asset store to replace the blocked objects that you've created. So this would be my approach to Unity. And one thing I want to do before we leave this video, I just want to delete this ugly thing that we created. And I'm going to go right here, delete it, and then do the same for this guy here. So feel free to explore this further before we move on to the next video.

### Finalize materials for objects

 Okay, so this is a special video that I added into the course just to make sure that you follow along if you want to add the materials with me. If you want to do this on your own or if you already added all the materials to the scene, feel free to skip this video. So what I'm going to do now is literally go ahead and add all the materials to the scene. So that's going to take a little bit so please feel free to follow along. So if you still have ProBuilder open, you can right click on the tab and close it. I didn't want to have that menu in the way. So let's go ahead and start. And as you can see the floor, there are multiple latches or parts of the floor. So we're going to take a bit to add this one. So this one is the acajou wood. So what I do, I go ahead and do this and there might be several to add. And this is probably the longest element to add materials to, and you'll see it complete as we add. Okay, so let's go. I'm almost done with this one. I think I have one more latch to go and I believe this is it for the floor. For the walls, I'm using a white wall, which is right here, or walls, and I'm putting it on all the walls. Beware that there's several sections of the wall as well, and sometimes the inside. Okay, so I believe we covered this room with the white walls. I wanted to start it with the floor and the walls in this room because there's not a whole lot of stuff in here, and then I move by sections. All right. There's also the ceiling, which I'm also doing white. And as you can see, there's a corner in that ceiling as well that needs to be covered. And I'm just checking if everything is covered. Once you're done with all this, one thing that I would do, and I'm going to do off this video just in case I didn't forget anything is when you click on the specific part, so for example, tile 986, if there is a material then you're good to go. If there's no materials here, so for example, the acajou wood, then you know that you forgot something and then you can just add it to the section that is selected as you click on it. So just a little trick. Okay, so next, let's make sure the walls are covered here. I believe I did cover them in the last part. And as you can see, it also covers the backsplash. Now for this section of the wall, same thing. Let's make sure we cover that wall and then the frames of the windows is covered. Perfect. Now while we're looking at the windows, let's make sure that we add the materials for the glass. And it's right here, the glass for those two. I believe these are empty windows. And then the glass is also used for the oven here so let's move to the oven while we're on the glass. Okay, so let's use the glass here and then for the second. Perfect. Okay, so we pretty much covered all of the glass area. If we forget something again, we can always do it later. The second thing that I want to do while I'm here is do this section here. And this is the green, green, green, green, green, green walls here. Perfect. And that covers also all of these sections here. So if you click on this, you're going to see, okay, I got it's like a blue-green aqua and you can see it here. Perfect. This is done and it is also covers this countertop bottom. So while we're here, let's do the countertop. This is sort of a wood one. There you go. And it covers the one in the kitchen as well. Okay, so I'm moving by section. So I'm seeing this sign has the knobs. Let's do the knobs while we're here. This guy here. And that covers all the knobs so let's go and cover the knobs. And for those, I have a specific one created. And let's move closer. And now you see the knobs have this material here so we're good. Okay. So now what I want to do is move to these chairs. Again, I'll always move by section. Okay. Alright, so let's go ahead and select these guys. Okay, so let's select these guys. So this is wood chairs. Let's do all of 'em, like so. Now while we're here, we're going to do the top of the seats. And for this one, I have a metal seats material that I built just for these guys. Okay. Boom. Boom. And for the ring here, you can do two things. You can use the steel glossy, you can use a chrome, or you can use the same metal seat here as the top. It's up to you. So for me, what I'm going to do just to have consistency and I'm going to move closer 'cause I want to make sure I hit the right thing here. Metal seat. There you go. Let's do the same color as the top to have consistency. Again, you choose what you want to do as we work through these things and make it your own if you want. All right, I'm going to do the bottom of this area here and then I'm going to go to the top of the island to see what I can do. So I believe most of the books have been covered. So what I'm going to do is grab these two, I believe I didn't do yet. So just for the sake of having some nuance from the top book, I'm going to do this three different materials, like so. Okay, so I'm checking to see if there's a material. Now this guy, I'm going to do ceramic. Perfect. All right, so now let's move up. FYI, I'm using click on my mouse, the middle mouse to grab and move faster. So I'm going to do the lamp and all the stuff in here. So to have a little bit of nuance between all these, I'm going to use different ceramic. There's one that's called the vase one and these are different materials for the vase. And then for the other one, I'm going to use ceramic to make it different in between them. And the same here. So I'm going to use ceramic for this guy and there's like three of them, one on top of each other. Yeah. Boom. Boom. Then use this on this guy and then use the other vase one for the middle just to add some. And then ceramic again. Okay, so we've done all of these guys. Now we need to do the leaves and the plants here. So for the branches, what I'm going to do is use the same acajou wood. It doesn't really make a difference because they're so small. And then I have a material for the leaves. Aloe leaves are actually the other one but the leaves are for these guys so there you go. So if I click on the leaves, I have the leaves material applied. Okay, so this does it for this section. Now I'm going to move into the kitchen countertops and oh yeah, let's hit this one here. It doesn't have a material yet for all this so let's make sure we do this. So for the cable, I'm going to do plastic. And for the rest, I actually will do plastic here. Plastic here too. And then for this guy, I'm going to do something like, you can go crazy with this. You can change things. Actually, I'm going to do plastic again just because that's the Ikea look that I'm going for. Okay, where's my plastic again? White plastic. There you go. Okay, so we're going to do that. And then the other one, the same thing. So plastic and then do here and then do. Perfect. And if you apply material by mistake, you can change it. It's not a big deal. So alright, so this section is done. Let's move in right here. Again, I'm using the middle mouse to grab the scene and just move with my scrolling mouse here. Okay, so then here the vase. I'm going to do ceramic. Same thing for this, the sink. Oop. Okay, this happens from time to time. Okay, so now here what I want to do is make sure to hit the handles on the window. And I'm going to have, for this one, I'm going to do steel glossy. All right. Before I do that, I'm going to move a bit further in just to make sure I'm hitting the right things. There you go. Perfect. I believe I've hit all three by doing this. Yeah. Okay. And for the the sink here, I'm going to use another one. I'm going to use the chrome one here. There you go. Alright, next is these vase. So these, I'm going to bring the ceramic back. Boom. Boom. Boom. Aloe leaves for these guys. Yeah. And FYI, it's pretty dark in the scene right now because we don't have any light set. We're going to do that in the video on lighting so do not worry. Okay. There's dirt in here, so we need to find the dirt. There you go. We need to add it to the three vases, not to the leaves. Alright, let me see if I can see this one better. Yes, dirt. Perfect. Okay, so now back out a little bit, grab the scene, middle mouse, and then we got a few things here. And then we have the oven to work on on the other side. So this is going to be a quick ceramic, ceramic. And I'm going to do the teapot ceramic because it's one mesh. They didn't split the handle, the metal here. So I'm going to do ceramic only because the rest here is going to be pretty dark. This is going to be chrome so I'm going to use chrome on these elements. And then for this section is going to be the black glass which I'm going to use also on the oven. And then for these buttons, I'm going to use plastic and also on the outlet right there. So I'm going to use the white plastic for these guys. Okay, and then for the wall, for this thing here. Okay, so now we have only this section left and then we're done. Okay, so now this section, we have a few things. We have the black glass for these guys so let's go and grab the black glass for this. And you can see that as I add the black glass, there's a square in the middle. This is for a menu. I'm going to add the black glass on this one but on this one, I'm going to add the menu. And for the menu, I'm going to use the clock. It's right here. There you go. All right. For the rest, it's still glossy for the handles. For this handle, I already did the glass here so I'm going to do black glass here again. And then still glossy on these two things here. And then we have the coffee area, same thing, black glass, black glass. We could use a menu again if you choose to. But the menu is weird here. So the UVs are probably weird on this subject here so I'm just going to do the black glass. And then here I'd like to do something different so I'm going to do steel glossy and then chrome for these guys. Chrome, chrome, chrome. And then steel glossy for the handle and then this handle. All right, that was a huge job, but you guys did it with me. I am really super proud of you guys to have gone through all this material application to the scene, but we have a scene complete with materials so let's go ahead and move on to the next chapter.


## 7. Creating and Implemeting Animation
### Animation basics and editors in Unity

 There are many ways to animate in Unity, and we'll explore some of them in this course and start with the simplest way to animate, with the animation window. So the animation window allows you to create animation clips inside of Unity. So later on, we'll explore the timeline, which allows you to create more complex animations. So let's get started with the animation window. So you get to the animation window by clicking window, animation, and animation window, and the shortcut is command six for Mac and option six for Windows. So let's go ahead and add it, and what I'm going to do is drag it inside of the bottom screen here like so, and I'm going to give myself a bit more room to play here. So the first thing you need to do, before you animate anything, you need to select an object in the scene. So what I'm going to do is select this piece of chair, and again, I'm going to make sure that I select the full chair and not just the hoops here, so let's go ahead and do that. And once you have the chair selected, and you can move it to make sure that you have the right thing selected, and you do, you create an animation. So I click create, and what I want to do is create an actual folder for animations, and this is where all of our animation stuff is going to go in. So I'm going to create a folder inside of the assets right here, new folder, and I'm going to name this folder animations. Perfect. So this will be chair three animation, so I'm going to name it accordingly, 'cause we're going to need it when we go into the controller or the state machine and have multiple animations within one controller. So this will make sense in the next video. So I'm going to call this chair_3, just to make it... Perfect. So now I have this window here that I have created for chair three. So the way to add an animation is to add a property. So let me explain this. Everything inside of a game object can be animated, so all the elements of an object could be animated, so you create a state or a key of specific elements of an object, then you move it through the timeline and then you create another state for that particular element in the inspector. So let me show you what that means. Let's go ahead and add a property. So when you click on add property, you have the chair itself and you have transform for the whole chair. So you can literally select one of these and go ahead and add an animation. But if you want to animate anything within the chair itself, you can actually go ahead and select the hoop, the legs, or anything else in there. So like I mentioned, anything within a game object can be animated. So I'm going to go ahead and hit the transform on here and use the position, 'cause that's what we're going to animate. Once you have this here, you have these positions that you can animate. You have the initial keyframes and you have the end keyframes. So these are basically, if you play it right now, nothing's going to happen, 'cause we didn't animate anything between all these keyframes, right? But the other thing you need to understand is that this is milliseconds. So right now, we have just one second of animation, so if you want more, you need to add more seconds here. So you can also select frames as opposed to seconds, but I like to play in actual time versus frames. So I'm still going to have seconds selected, and what I want is create keyframes at 300 milliseconds, which is basically five seconds. So I'm going to delete those keyframes and then hit 300, and then create new keyframes at the 300 mark. So right now, we have keyframes at 300, or five seconds, and by the way, if you want to stretch your timeline and make it shorter or seeing it all, what you can do is actually click on this side here and stretch it in a way where you can actually see all your keyframes in one screen. So right now, this is the position at the keyframe here, so what we need to do is change, for those keyframes, where it's going to be at this. So if we select this here, this is where it is at this position on the Z axis and at this position on the X axis. So if you want to change it for the end, we need to select those keyframes and then move it within the position here. So if you want to know exactly where to put it here, you can actually move it first, and you'll know exactly where those keyframes you want it to be, and you can change it so minus 0.4 or 0.5, minus 0.5, and then for the Z axis is minus 0.67. Now, if you play the animation right now, what it's going to do, it's basically going to start from where you had it in the scene and then move it by minus five in the X axis and minus six in the Z axis. But we wanted it to start where it was initially, so what we're going to do now is basically stop the animation and make sure it is in the position where it was initially, like here. So when we actually play the animation, it's going to move it from where we wanted it over time. So if you want to change it somewhere else or if you had to change the animation, you can change those values, but at least we have a five second animation for the chair right now. So you can make changes... Hold on, let's just get the initial state properly. So this is where I want it initially, and this is the initial state, so if you go back to here, you see it's at 0, 0, 0, and when you play it, this is where it's going. So you can change the animation as you see fit. So right now, it's at 0, 0, 0, 0, and then it's going to move by these numbers. So if you don't like what the numbers are, you can change as you wish. So you can also take a look, okay, so I want it by this position, by minus four here, and so on so forth. You can change all of this to make the animation that you want. So at the end, let's go at the end. So if you don't like this, you can do, okay, so I don't like this here, I want it more here at the end, and then you can change the values for the original keyframe so when you play it, it's going to be where you want it to be, like that. And voila, you have your very first animation in Unity. So feel free to play around with the options before you move on to the next video.


### Animation Controllers

 Animation controllers allow you to add multiple animations for a specific game object and use them based on the state of that game object. So let's say, for example, you want to have a character that would be walking then that would be an animation and then you can have multiple walking animations that would be inside of that controller. So whenever you create an animation, a controller is automatically created for you. So basically you have a controller right now for that chair animation. So let's take a look at that. So let's go into our project, go into our animations and you see our controller right here. So this is the animation and this is the controller. So if you double click on the controller, you're going to see this menu. So FYI, to move in this menu, you can use the middle mouse key. And this is why I suggest to always have a three buttons mouse, because now I can use the zoom in, zoom out to move inside of my state machine and I can use that middle mouse button to move and grab, pretty much like what we were doing in the seat. So what I'm going to do is, just to make that clear, is that when the game is started, so if we hit play right now, what it's going to do, it's going to enter into our game and then it's going to do the chair animation. And by the way, in order to do all this, you need a camera. We don't have one. And we'll create one very, very soon. So we go into our game and then the chair animation will play. So what we're going to do is create a new controller that will have a second animation for a second chair and then we'll have a third controller that will have the two animations into one controller. And then we'll add a camera where we're going to be able to see all these animations. So let's go ahead and do all this. So the first thing I'm going to do is create a new animation. So let's go ahead and go into our scene and select another chair, do the exact same thing that we've done. Go here, create a new animation, and we're going to call this Chair 2, underscore 2. Perfect. We're going to do the exact same thing that we've done before. So we're going to do Add Property, Chair, Transforms, Position, and now we have the key frames, exact same thing as before. So what we're going to do now, this is the initial state and we want to make sure that we add, also, six seconds. So we're going to delete that, had 300 here. And what we're going to do is move before we add that key frame. So let's move the chair this way, then move it forward like here, and then create, add the 300, so the five seconds, the key frames. Just making sure it has created it, so let's... Perfect. So if we play our animation now, it's doing a movement for this chair. Perfect. Now we have this animation and we have the other animation. So if we stop this, we go into Project, we have two controllers, one for chair two, and one for chair three, those animations and two controllers. So what I'm going to do now is create another controller that will have the two animations in it and then we'll have the camera. And then with all this, we'll be able to see two animations while we enter into our controllers. All right, so what we're going to do is go ahead and create a controller. So you go right click into the folder Create and scroll all the way down to here, Animation Controller. And I'm going to call this chair_animations. Now open that one. And now, as you can see, we have in our state machine, an entry and an exit. So how do you get your animations in here? It's very simple. You simply drag and drop your animation right here, like so. Okay, so now we have this controller and we have the two animations in here. Now the problem that we have here is that when we enter into our game, when we start our game, it's going to enter into a state machine here and then just play this one chair animation. We don't have this one connected to anything. So what we need to do is right click here and then make transition to this. So it's going to start this animation. And then after, it's going to start the second animation. Good. So we have our animations, now what we need to do is create the camera. So let's go ahead and go into our scene right here. And I'm going to go to the top level here and add a camera. So we don't have a camera right now. So let's go ahead and add one. So I'm going to create a camera, right click and create a camera. And then we're going to need to move it into our scene, so let's go ahead and move it where we need it to be. I'm going to use the sliders to make it easier for myself. There you go. Perfect. Use the Z axis, like so. Just want to make sure the camera is in the view. Now, one thing you could do when you have the camera, if you want to see what it looks like, you can basically click on this object and you're going to see the camera view. So right now you can see what, where the camera is and what is its view. 'Cause once you start the game, if the camera doesn't have the right view... Oh, let me just back out a little bit. There you go. So this is where it is. I need it a bit forward. There you go. This is where I need it, perfect. And then a bit sideways like this and then maybe a bit forward. There you go. And down. Good. So we see where the camera is. We'll be able to see the animations. And again, I'm looking at this view here because that's the camera view. One thing you could do to make this even faster, because we've played with this view and it was a bit of a challenge, you could go into the game here, select the view that you want, specifically where you want it by using the usual key shortcuts, like so. And then what you could do is click on GameObject, and while you have the camera selected, Align With View. So if you click on this, now the camera view is aligned with the view you have in here. And that saves a lot of problems or a lot of going back and forth like we just did. So now that we have all the elements ready, we can actually click on start of our game and we'll see our camera view and then it's going to play the animations. So as you can see when we start the game, our animations play. So you can see that a controller is a great tool when you want to add multiple clips of animation based on the state of an object or multiple objects. Especially good if you want one object to have multiple states of animation. Again, play with the state machine and have fun creating multiple animations and then move to the next video.


### Physics and rigid bodies

 Physics and rigid body allow game objects to act within the control of physics. In other words, we can add gravity and realistic behaviors to certain objects. So let's take a look at this. So what we're going to do is add a sphere that's going to act as a ball inside of our scene here. So what I'm going to do first is remove all these icons here and I'm going to add a sphere inside of the scene. And what it's going to do with rigid body it's going to fall through the table. We're going to add a collider to the table, the floor, and everything else later on to make sure that it doesn't fall through. But for this video, we're going to add mass and some physics to that ball, because right now if we play and we add a ball, it's not going to move. So let's go ahead and create first a sphere. So I'm going to right click into my hierarchy, create 3D object, and select the sphere. And let's make sure that our sphere is right above the table. So right now it's kind of here like so and let's see where it's at. I think it's in the right spot. Yep. Also, I'm going to make it smaller. So I'm going to use a shortcuts again, like W E R T, like so. Okay, it should be good enough. Let's see where it's at. I like where it's at. Then I'm going to use it. Maybe make it higher so when it falls it has. Yeah, and make it slightly smaller too. There you go. Okay, perfect. So, all right, let's make sure we have our sphere selected. I'm going to close everything else. Clean this. Alright, so if you remember a couple of videos ago I mentioned add components and how I introduced the game object. So in here in this menu is again the add component. So what we're going to do is add to this sphere a rigid body. The one thing that it does automatically for us it added a collider. So the collider is basically the ability to have the sphere bump on the walls and things not going through the sphere. So it has a collider for the sphere, but nothing else in this scene has a collider. That means that once we animate this, or once we add the mass to the ball, it's going to fall. But it's going to do this, it's going to go right through our scene. So this is what a collider does. It actually adds some kind of physical form to our table or to our walls. And when the sphere falls, it's going to bounce as opposed to go through the table and everything else. But the sphere already has it. So what we need to do now is add a rigid body. So add something or some physics to it. So we're going to do that. So add component, and I'm going to look for rigid body. And I'll click on this and then scroll down. And you have a mass to it and drag. So basically the mass to it is how heavy it is. So you can change this to whatever you want but in our case we're going to leave it at that. The drag is basically how much drag the subject has as it falls. So the best example for this is a piece of clothing. A piece of clothing as it falls is kind of going to swerve and fall slowly. So that's what drag is. So if this was a piece of clothing, we would add drag to it. So let's go ahead and animate this. I want to see how this goes and I'm sure you want to as well. So let's go just to make sure it's above the table. So what's going to happen now once we hit play we're going to have our animations for our chairs but we're also going to see the ball fall through. And again, you use the camera for this so you want to make sure that the camera is in the right position to see the ball. So if you want to move it, then you move the camera. So we can take a look at where the camera is, camera view is here. Maybe we want to change it to the view that we have here. So we're going to use the same command that we used before, align with view. Perfect, so now we can see the ball. All right, so I'm going to remove all these things and then I'm going to play the game and take a look at what the ball does. And as you can see the ball just went through the table and through the floor and it's probably falling to eternity in our scene. So this is a simple example of what you can do with physics but if you explore the many other materials inside of the physics tab, you'll find plenty. So let me stop this for a second and let's go to our ball again, and let's go to add component, clear the search and go through the physics. And you'll see that there's a lot of these things here. You have, you have colliders for specific things. You have a clothing physics element and you have all these things that you can add to your objects and your scene and have some physical elements apply to it. We'll explore the collider in a future video, but for now as you can see rigid body adds mass to our ball, to our sphere. So you can also refer to Unity's documentation to find out what each of these does. And I would recommend strongly that you explore it if you're planning on doing a lot more with Unity. So feel free to pause the video and do that now, and then continue after.


## 8. Collisions
### Unity Collider components

 As we've explored briefly in the last chapter, colliders are the main tool to allow us to set some rules around collisions for our objects in our scene. In other words, make sure we don't walk through walls or objects. So let's explore those. So what I'm going to do is go to the table here, and click on Add Components, and then click on Physics, and then you'll see colliders here. If we take a look at the ones we have available, they all essentially do the same thing, but in different scenarios we use different ones. The Box Collider is typically the one we use on most objects, so always start with this one. The Mesh Collider will change based on the volume or size of the mesh, and is useful when the object isn't quite an even shape. The Sphere Collider is for rounded objects, and the Capsule Collider is typically used with characters, this one. So with that said, what we'll do in the next video is apply several colliders to this kitchen scene so we don't walk through walls or fall infinitely because we don't have a collider for our floor.


### Applying Colliders

 All right, so let's go ahead and add colliders throughout our scene. So the first one I absolutely want is the countertop here, so when the ball falls, it actually bounces off the counter. So let's go ahead and add this one. And for this one, I'm going to use the Box Collider. Perfect. And if you want to see what you just added, you just click on this icon here and you're going to see the collider here. We'll work on it in the next video. For now, just let's just add it across. So we're going to add one to our floor. And because our floor has multiple elements, you want to make sure you select not just the tile but the entire wooden floor, like so. Let's add a component. And for this one, box as well. Then we're going to add colliders for the walls here, just make sure we're not walking through the walls. A component. And for this one, I'm going to add a mesh. Mesh Collider. Same thing for all the other walls. The ceiling. We could add the Box Collider for this one since it's very square. Box Collider. To this wall, I'm going to add a Mesh Collider. When the shapes are not even or when you're not sure, add a Mesh Collider, actually is shaped by the object itself. When there's something that is squared like this, add a Box Collider. For the chair, I'm going to use the Capsule Collider. Chair instance, chair instance. Capsule Collider. Chair. Capsule Collider. These walls, same thing. I'm going to add a Mesh Collider for this one. For this one, same thing, Mesh collider. You get the gist of it. Mesh Collider. So I got the ceiling, I got the walls, I got the floor, I got the main objects here that I truly want this ball to bounce off. Now, let's take a look at the one here. So I want to take a look at the counter because this is the one that's important, where the ball is going to fall. And let's add these icons to make sure, as you can see, it's a bit weird. Right now, it's way too large. And we're going to work on these in the next video. So this is how we add colliders to all the elements in your scene. Feel free to add some more as you see fit, but this is how you work with colliders. Let's move on.

### Optimizing Collisions

 Maximizing colliders is simply about going back to the colliders you've added and then editing them to be more realistic. So let's get to it. So right now we have this one collider that really doesn't make sense. So how would you go about editing it? If you go back into the inspector where the collider is you have this edit collider here, one icon with three dots. Click on this and now you're going to see the collider right here. So the way to edit it is basically to grab any of the corners and editing it. So I'm going to basically go ahead and select this collider and then select this side and maximize it by making sure it hits the table where it needs to be. Same thing here. Let's go ahead and shrink it to the side. I'm going to focus on the table and not do the entire countertop. If it falls onto the side, we'll see what happens. Okay. Alright, let's select this again. Edit collider, grab this side, bring it to the table here. Like so. Perfect. So I want to focus on the table here. The way I would've built the scene myself I would've split this table and the countertop here, but they're together. But I'm going to focus on this for the ball to fall and possibly land on the ground here. I don't think it's going to hit back here depending on the mass that I've added to it we can change the mass afterwards but I believe that it's going to either bounce here on the back or the front. So let's see what else do we need to change. If we look at these guys, for example the chair instance. Collider is rounded. I'm not going to change those. Am I going to change anything else? If we look at the floor, wooden floor this collider is really not maximized. This is one that is going to give us trouble because now if the ball falls here it's going to basically be in the wrong place. It's going to fall off to the side. Like I'm just looking at this from this perspective and it's really not covering the floor properly. So, all right, let's edit this guy. So let's go and make it wider. Like so. Same thing on the other side. So it's big enough. The only thing I will change is how thick it is. Make sure, let's go back into our scene. Like this. Just want to make sure that height-wise it won't be a conflict. This is one that is really important because when the ball is going to fall, it's going to bounce off this floor here, right? And the counter. So this is where we want to make sure it bounces off this counter. Then it's going to bounce off the chairs and boom. And if you feel that, let's say for example the chair is not to your liking, you don't like the fact that the chair is a capsule collider you can actually remove that and re-add the box collider like so. So you would see right now that this box collider is really not ideal for this object which is why I would choose something like a mesh collider or the cylinder in this case. But let's test it with the box thing too. Let's see how it goes when the ball falls off from the table it's going to hit that chair at some point or the other chair here. So now you have the two examples. You have one that is a box. We could do a mesh for this one instead of a capsule and leave the third one as a capsule. So let's do a mesh for this one. Mesh collider. Okay, so the next thing we need to do just to make sure just before we start this, because it's not going to be bouncy if we don't have the physics material to the ball. So the first thing I'm going to do is select the ball. And I'm just going to remove this for a second. I'm going to go my materials, right click in here, create, physic material. And this is where we're going to add bounciness. So let's add one and let's see what happens. Dynamic friction, static friction. We can change those to zero. Actually, let's put it zero. Perfect. And then apply that materials to that ball. Now that you have it applied to this sphere you're going to see it right here. New physics material. All right, so now we're ready to play that scene. Let's go ahead and hit play. And boom, you have a bouncing ball. So if you want to change any of the physics material that you just added to the ball to make it more bouncy, have less friction and so on, so forth, you can play with all the controls and then experiment before you move on.


## 9. Adding Audio
### Adding sound to GameObjects

 Now let's work on our sounds in our scene. So right now we have two sounds. We have the ambient sound, which is the outdoor sounds here and we have the kettle sound. So let's start with that one. So, let's select our kettle in our scene. And now we can add the kettle sound to this particular game object. So the way to add sound is to add the component, like we've done before. And what you need is the audio source. Audio Source. This one. Once you have this component you need to have an audio clip. So the way to do this is you can click here and select one of the two audio clips. So in this case, I believe this is the one. Yeah, 0526. And this is the kettle. Now let's look at the options. The priority is, basically, how often or how in the scene you want to hear the sound versus the other ones. The higher the priority, the higher you're going to hear more that sound versus the other ones. The lower, the lower you're going to hear these sounds. So if you want to hear the kettle at all times, you put a higher priority. The volume is the volume. The pitch is basically playing with the sound. Make it higher pitch or lower pitch. If you want a basey sound, you want to lower this. If you want something that is higher in pitch, you can, basically, increase that number. I would recommend not to touch this setting 'cause usually you get the files the way they're meant to be heard. Stereo pan is left or right, so if you want to hear it more on the left or on the right when you're hearing it in the headphones. Spatial blend is, basically, how you want to hear it in the scene as you get closer to the object. So basically this is the same thing as this one. And you can go very granular with the setting. So, if you want to hear the sound at all times or if you want to hear more as you get closer to it, this is the curve that you are playing with. And you can also, basically, play with these sounds as well. So this is something that I wouldn't play with initially. And then, as you heard the sound initially, then what you could do is play with it and I'll do whatever settings you change just to make sure that you understand the way it's set right now versus later with the different settings. Okay, so we have this one set. Let's go ahead and add the ambient sound. So the ambient sound I'm going to add to the whole house, this object. So let's go ahead and do that. I'm going to add component, audio source, again. Clip. Boom, ambient. And now that we have this, maybe I want a higher volume. So you could do 1.5 on this if you want to hit more. Perfect. Now that we've added two sounds in our scene please try it for yourself now. Go ahead and play with these sounds or add it to different things or even have your own sounds and apply it to different objects. Pause the course and try to play with your own sounds.

### Adding sound to GameObjects

 Now let's work on our sounds in our scene. So right now we have two sounds. We have the ambient sound, which is the outdoor sounds here and we have the kettle sound. So let's start with that one. So, let's select our kettle in our scene. And now we can add the kettle sound to this particular game object. So the way to add sound is to add the component, like we've done before. And what you need is the audio source. Audio Source. This one. Once you have this component you need to have an audio clip. So the way to do this is you can click here and select one of the two audio clips. So in this case, I believe this is the one. Yeah, 0526. And this is the kettle. Now let's look at the options. The priority is, basically, how often or how in the scene you want to hear the sound versus the other ones. The higher the priority, the higher you're going to hear more that sound versus the other ones. The lower, the lower you're going to hear these sounds. So if you want to hear the kettle at all times, you put a higher priority. The volume is the volume. The pitch is basically playing with the sound. Make it higher pitch or lower pitch. If you want a basey sound, you want to lower this. If you want something that is higher in pitch, you can, basically, increase that number. I would recommend not to touch this setting 'cause usually you get the files the way they're meant to be heard. Stereo pan is left or right, so if you want to hear it more on the left or on the right when you're hearing it in the headphones. Spatial blend is, basically, how you want to hear it in the scene as you get closer to the object. So basically this is the same thing as this one. And you can go very granular with the setting. So, if you want to hear the sound at all times or if you want to hear more as you get closer to it, this is the curve that you are playing with. And you can also, basically, play with these sounds as well. So this is something that I wouldn't play with initially. And then, as you heard the sound initially, then what you could do is play with it and I'll do whatever settings you change just to make sure that you understand the way it's set right now versus later with the different settings. Okay, so we have this one set. Let's go ahead and add the ambient sound. So the ambient sound I'm going to add to the whole house, this object. So let's go ahead and do that. I'm going to add component, audio source, again. Clip. Boom, ambient. And now that we have this, maybe I want a higher volume. So you could do 1.5 on this if you want to hit more. Perfect. Now that we've added two sounds in our scene please try it for yourself now. Go ahead and play with these sounds or add it to different things or even have your own sounds and apply it to different objects. Pause the course and try to play with your own sounds.

### The Unity Audio Mixer

 The audio mixer is a great way to control audio levels for each sound as the character or your camera walks through our scene. So let's explore how to work with the audio mixer and adjust some of the levels of our sound and play it afterwards. All right, so what I'm going to do is in the audio folder, I'm going to right click, Create and select Audio Mixer. And I'm going to call this Kitchen and I'm going to double click on this audio mixer. And as you can see right now, I have a master sound. But what I want to do is add a group for the kettle sound and a group for the ambient sound. And usually what you would do is create groups for a specific set of sounds and add all these sounds to specific groups. So because I have only two sounds, I'm going to create the groups, add the sounds to them. But if you had, for example, a big scene with multiple characters with multiple sounds at the same time, this is where you add multiple groups and go granular with different sets of game objects and master the sound this way. So let's go ahead and do that. So I'm going to create a first group that I'm going to call Kettle, and then I'm going to create another group that I'm going to call Ambient. So the way I did this is basically select Master and then create a group and then did the exact same thing. What you could do if you want to go even more granular is select, for example, Ambient and then create a group or a subgroup of Ambient. So it's basically the same way that we've done prefabs in the past is you will control the volume of the subgroup from ambient and then go into the nested element and control the sound there. So this could be a good way to control groups of characters and then go within the subgroups of characters and then go to a character level and master the sound as your character or your camera moves through the scene. So you can go very granular with this. Okay, so how do you assign specific groups here or audio mixers to your sounds is to go to that specific object first. Let's go to the kettle, go into the audio source and then assign an output. So what I'm going to do now is click here and select the kettle. So now it's going to be output to the master kettle. Now, the other sound that we have is Ambient in the Country Kitchen. So what I'm going to do here is do the same thing, select ambient, and we're good to go. 

## 10. Unity Lighting
### Directional lighting

 Lighting is one of the most pleasing aspect of working in Unity or any 3D program as it really starts to bring our scene together. So let's explore together what lighting options we have while populating our scene. So let's start with a directional light as we have in our scene with the sun here. If you don't see the sun and you're inside of the scene, double click on the sun and you'll be right here. And you can go up here and you'll see that the sun is right here. A directional light is perfect for something like the sun because it is infinite. Therefore, you can place it anywhere in the scene and it will have the same effect. However, if you change its direction or rotation it will have an impact. So just an example, if I do this, if I move the sun, it won't have any impact on our scene. So, if I bring it where it was by doing undo it doesn't have an impact on our scene. But if you change the rotation this is where you start changing the light in the scene. And the best way to see this is to go back into our scene. So let's go back into the French kitchen. I'm going to go all the way in, like so. And if I click the sun and I change its rotation, you're going to see now that it changes the light. You can see it a little bit to the side. Same thing here. You can see the sun coming in like so, and I think this would be a cool look. So as long as you change the rotation this is where you're going to see the light impact. So by moving the direction it is aiming at you can change its impact on the scene. I also typically play with the intensity. So for examples, if I go here and I play with the intensity here, you can make the sun lower or you can make the sun much stronger. And the other settings that you want to take a look at is the mode. Do you want to bake the sun or do you want to have it real-time like we have right now? Usually for the sun, what you want to do is either mix or bake, depending on if you have a lot of elements that are moving in a scene. If you have elements that are moving, you do mix or real time because real time means that it's going to adapt to whatever objects that it is moving in the scene. So right now we have this object that falls, 

### Point and spotlight

 Let's continue working on our lights and explore the properties as we add them. Let's start with a Point Light. A Point Light emits light in every direction equally. So let's go ahead and create one. So I'm going to right click, Light, Point Light. And what I'm going to do so that we can see what it does, I'm going to double click on that Point Light, and then make sure that the gizmos are all appearing. So as you can see right now, it's a big Point Light, so it emits light in every direction and it actually fades out as it gets towards the end of the circle or the sphere. So the way to actually change all this, what you can do, well, first of all, let's put it inside of our house at 0, 0, 0. Perfect. If you click on Range, this is how you impact the circle. So if you want a Point Light to emit light in a specific area, you drop the range. So if I go towards that light, it's kind of, slightly inside there. So let's put it inside of our house, or our kitchen, and then you can change the range this way, and make it very specific to this area. And then what you could do like the other light that we've explored, you can change the intensity, you can change the color. You can have also, for example, if you want, you can leverage some of the volume metrics and change the shadows. All these settings can actually be changed to make your light specific to what you want. The other thing that you can change at any point while you're actually working with your light, if you feel like this should have been a spot light as opposed to a Point Light, you can actually change the type right here and then change it to Spot and then change all the other settings. So speaking of Spot, this is the next light. So basically a Spot light is like our lights that we have here. So it actually emits light in a specific direction based on the shape. So the shape is determined by the shape you select here. So it could be a cone, a pyramid, or a box. In most cases it's a cone because that kind of reflects the reality of what a light does. So if we put this particular light, let's just go grab it. And if we put this light specifically where the spot lights that we have under here could be, and then you see where it emits the actual cones. So we would need to actually change its rotation a bit so it's lower. So in this case, yeah, so we would do 90 degrees. 

### Area and emissive lighting

 Now let's explore two other types of light you'll use in your scenes: an area light, and using the emissive setting materials to simulate a light from an object. So let's start with the area light. An area light is a rectangle that produces light with a soft shadowing. So let me create one so you can see it. And actually, let's see if I can change this one. Yes. Okay, so let's change this to an area light. So again, we have a settings of the actual size like before and you can determine the shape, so a tube, a rectangle, or a disc. But let's go back to rectangle. And if you have a rectangle, you can actually see very closely here the size of a rectangle. So if we go ahead and pick those up and you can also change the settings right here, you can change the rectangle. So if you want, let's say for example on the counter like this one, and this is outside so let's go and reposition it. Let's say we wanted to have this inside the house. Okay, so let's position this. And let's say this is where I wanted it, then you could grab the size and make it smaller, like so and fit it right under the counter to emit a specific light, like so. And this is what an area light would be. And again, you have all the other same settings as we had for spotlight or for the point light, so the intensity, the range, the lumen. If you want to change to any other settings, you can choose Nits and EV 100 but most of the time I choose lumen. And then you could increase the intensity and you can see it as I increase the intensity, the counter is a lot more lit here. Perfect. And this is what an area light is. Now the other one that we want to explore is the emissive settings for our material and we're going to use that on our little clock here. So our clock here is a material. So if you click on this, you see that the clock material is right here. So if we click on this, we see all of our settings for the clock material. One of those settings is emissive, and it's right here. So let's say for example, you can also access your clock 

### Introduction to volumes

 Volumes are a great way to add nice effects to the scene. We can use volumes to control settings such as fog, sky, lighting, post-processing, or shadows. Volumes can be global or local to a scene. So let's take a look at how this works. The way to create a volume is to right click in the hierarchy and then go to volume and then you can select this global volume, sky and fog, reflection, box volume, and so on and so forth. Let's create a global volume for now. So when you create a global volume, obviously it is global, as you can see right here. And if you make it local, these are the elements that you can actually do. But let's do global. And as you can see, there's nothing. If you wanted to add anything to the global volume, you add a component, find volume and then you need to add a profile. So you can either select a profile or you can create a new one. When you created a new one, then you can add overrides, and this is where you see all the functions that comes with the volume. So you can do exposure, fog, lighting, journal, post processing, and so on, so forth. So what I'm going to do is delete this and explore one that's already created with a lot of things in it. So let's delete this one, create a new one and let's select the sky and fog, global volume. So when you select this one, you'll see that there's a lot of things that are already created for us. You have all these things that are created to add volume or to add some sense into our scene so let me just close this for now. So one of the things that we want to do when we add our volume is add an HDRP sky and add exposure, auto exposure so our scene is not underlit or overlit as we add more lights. So let's go ahead and do that. So let me scroll down and I'm going to close the other ones here. Fog and add an overrides. And the first one I want is... The first one that I want exposure, and I want it automatic, like so. So basically it's going to automatically change the exposure as we add lights to the scene just to help us with our lights. That's the first one. Okay, now the second one I want to add is the sky here 

## 11. Baking Lighting
### Introduction to light baking

 If you've never heard of the term light baking or don't quite understand what it is, this video is for you. In its simplest form, light baking creates a light map composed of texels, which is a texture that is overlaid on top of your 3D objects with the light information applied to it. In other words, baked. For each texel in your map, Unity sends rays towards the light to read how it impacts this texel. When you have a scene with multiple lights added to it, this light creates shadows and highlights and often changes the color properties of your objects. For instance, a no pack green would have regions of the object that have a lighter green and some other areas, a darker green. Multiply this with dozens, if not hundreds of 3D objects on your scene and you can probably suspect what issues we may have. Our computer resources will struggle quite a bit in trying to render all these different objects with the light and other effects in our scene, especially when we start adding complex calculations like global illumination, which is how the light bounces from one object to another and adds the colors of these bounces. This is where light baking comes to the rescue. Instead of recalculating how the light impacts our objects every second or frame you're looking at your game, it bakes these effects directly into the objects so it doesn't have to use crucial resources for rendering lights in real time. It's a texture applied to your model instead of lights being rendered, giving the impression there is light on this object casting shadows or highlights when it's just an image, therefore saving precious computing resources for other tasks. One of the big disadvantages of using light baking into your scene is the fact that you're not going to get real-time direct lighting from dynamic objects or characters, say, when your character walks into a scene and a light is casting rays above him. So depending on the performance and look you're going for you might or might not want to do light baking. So let's take a look at the light baking options in Unity.

### Object and light parameters for baking

 When going over a scene like the one we're setting here, the exercise you need to go through is to ask yourself what are the lights where shadows won't be impacted by moving characters or changes in the scene? For our project, we're lucky enough that we won't have any dynamic objects, 'cause I deleted the animations and the ball is not going to fall. So let's take a look at the first step for baking our lights and what needs to be done at the object level. For baking anything in this scene here you need to make the object static. So right now if we bring our window, rendering, lighting, and I'm going to put this one just by the inspector, we generate a Lightmap. Let me just put a little bit more like so, you'll see that it doesn't take long. That means that there's not a single object that is static right now so nothing will be baked. Everything is dynamic. So basically everything is going to be rendered live. So in order to make static elements, you need to select the objects that you want to be static and click on static. So let me show you how you do this. So in this case, we're going to want to have everything static. I'm going to click on my model here, go to the inspector, and select static like so. And then it asks you, "Do you want to enable the static flags for all the child objects?" Yes, so that means now everything is static. So if I click on this, and I'm not going to do this now, on the lighting, I'm not going to do this now 'cause it's going to take a while. It's going to bake everything in our scene. So for anything that is dynamic like let's say we had water falling at the basins here in the kitchen, let's say we're here, let's go closer, and we have water falling here. If we bake all this, it's going to look weird. So you will need for that particular object to unclick static, like so. And then go into the lighting section here, cast shadow on, and then contribute to global illumination. So this means that it's not going to use Lightmaps but it's going to receive global illumination from the Lightmaps, and therefore you're going to be able to have water falling in and create its own shadows. We're going to undo that. One other thing that you can actually take a look at, let's say for example, let's click on this, and click on this arrow here. This is everything that's going to contribute to the Lightmap, so Gi, Occluder Static, Batching, Occludee Static. So if you want to select and pick anything in here or nothing, you can actually take the options off for this particular mesh. Another thing that you need to pay attention to when you're actually on a specific object or the global object is the scale in the Lightmap. And we're going to explore this in the next video what that means. Scale and Lightmap means that right now this particular object has a 1. So this is the density of the text holes. So we're going to take a look at the textiles density in the next video so you can take a look at what it looks like when it's baked and I'm actually going to bake a map in-between this video and the next so you can see the baked map on the scene. As you can see, light baking isn't a complicated process but mostly an evaluation of where you want to gain performance or maintain a high-definition look.

### Texels exploration

 So let's explore what is the text hole density and you're going to see it live through the bake map. So in between this video and the last I actually baked a map here and I use low settings because I didn't want to wait two hours for this to bake. So if you look at the top here you have this icon here that you can select and choose the view that you have in here in the seat. So you can have shaded wire frame shaded wire frame, and so on, so forth. The one we're looking for is baked lightmap. By clicking on this one it's going to show you the baked lightmap. And by the way, if it's too shiny you can actually change the exposure here. And as you decrease it, you're going to see the baked lightmap. This is the squares that you're seeing in this scene are the textiles. This is the textile density for each object. So, however this was UV mapped, you're going to see the number of squares, and this is the textile density. So basically, let's say for example we wanted to increase the textile density for the table so it has better lighting or better resolution on the baked map. You can click on the object, go in the inspector and increase the scale in the lightmap. So let's say we could go for two you would see that now we're going to have a better resolution and so on and so forth. If you go at higher levels so let's say three or five, you're going to see that now we have a lot of resolution for that particular map so this is better too. If you see anything that you want to increase the textile density, this is where you would do it. So I will go back to shaded view and see you in the next video.